Romanian Cabbage Rolls (Sarmale)

Sarmale is a traditional Romanian dish made with cabbage leaves stuffed with a mixture of ground meat, rice, and spices. 

The Best Romanian Cabbage Rolls Recipe

This recipe for Romanian cabbage rolls is tried and true. I’ve made it probably a hundred times, and have rolled thousands of them! The big difference between Romanian cabbage rolls and others are that we make them with sour cabbage. You can find sour cabbage at pretty much all grocery stores sold in jars. You can also find sour cabbage at your local Polish or Ukrainian stores!

The beauty of using sour cabbage is that you don’t need to boil cabbage or freeze it to soften the leaves. So basically there’s very minimal work in prepping the cabbage leaves. But besides that, cabbage rolls made with sour cabbage pack so much more flavor!

This is my mom’s recipe for sarmale and it’s my favorite. I won’t eat cabbage rolls made any other way. The other piece that separates Romanian cabbage rolls from the rest is that we add some kind of smoked meat. This time I used smoked bacon. Now I’ve got your attention, hey?
Vegetable oil – We’ll be using this to saute the onion and rice. You can use any type of oil that you have handy.
Onion – I used a large onion because this recipe makes a lot of cabbage rolls. Every bite should have a little bit of onion in it!
Long grain rice – I prefer Jasmine or Basmati rice. I wouldn’t use brown rice as it takes a lot longer to cook than white rice and you may end up with crunchy bits in your rolls.
Ground pork – I love to use pork because it has a higher fat content and makes for some nice juicy rolls. You can use any type of ground meat you like, but keep in mind that leaner meats like chicken or turkey will come out drier. You can even combine meats, for example half pork and half beef.
Fresh parsley and dill – Using fresh herbs makes such a big difference in how the flavor develops in your rolls!
Salt and pepper – Season the mixture to your own discretion but be careful with the rolls because the sour cabbage is quite salty.
Sour cabbage leaves – This is what really sets the Romanian version apart from the rest. The little hit of vinegar is to die for! Sour cabbage is basically fermented cabbage, same as sauerkraut but it’s sold as whole cabbage instead of chopped.
Bacon – Find yourself a nice thick-cut smoky style of bacon.
Tomato juice – This is what our rolls are going to sit and cook in.
How To Make Romanian Cabbage Rolls

This recipe is super easy to prepare. The hardest part is getting through rolling all of that filling, but I promise it’s worth it. Make a day of it and invite some friends and family to help!

Prep The Cabbage

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
As I mentioned, there’s very little prep that’s needed to get the cabbage ready for rolling. What I do like to do is soak the sour cabbage in cold water overnight, but usually I forget and I’ll soak it for about an hour while I prep my other ingredients and do other stuff in the kitchen. I do this, to remove some of the salt from the cabbage, as it can be quite salty.

Once the cabbage has soaked in water for a bit, you want to take each leaf and cut some of the core from it. However, if you’ve already bought a jar of cabbage leaves, you may not even need to do this. Then I cut each leaf in half, since I like to make my cabbage rolls smaller.

Prep The Filling

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
Another thing that sets our cabbage rolls apart is that we actually cook the onion and the rice for a bit before adding it to the meat mixture. So basically you’ll want to sauté the onion in some vegetable oil for about 3 minutes until softened. Then add the rice and toast it for 1 minute. Let it cool while you get the other ingredients ready.

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
Now, in a large bowl, you’ll want to add the ground pork, salt, pepper, parsley, dill, and the onion mixture. Mix it well with your hands until well combined. Use the salt sparingly since the cabbage leaves are brined.

Preheat The Oven

Now is the time to preheat your oven, so get that going to 375°F (191°C), so that it’s nice and warm when we put our cabbage rolls in.

Make The Rolls

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
Fill each leaf with about a ¼ cup of the meat mixture and roll tucking in the ends as you see in the video. Repeat with all the remaining meat and cabbage leaves.

Assemble The Rolls

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
If you have any leftover cabbage leaves you’ll want to chop that up and spread some on the bottom of a large Dutch oven. Then place the cabbage rolls on the chopped cabbage in a single layer. Next, you’ll want to top with bacon, and be generous.

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
Finish with another layer of cabbage rolls, more bacon and a bit more chopped cabbage. If you like you can also season with some ground pepper.

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
Now, you’ll need to pour the tomato juice over the cabbage rolls and add additional water as needed. You want to make sure the rolls are completely covered with liquid.

Bake The Cabbage Rolls

process shots showing how to make romanian cabbage rolls. 
Cover the Dutch oven with a lid or aluminum foil if your pot doesn’t have a lid and transfer it to the oven. Bake for 2 hours, then remove the lid or foil and cook for another 1 to 1.5 hours.