Homemade Mici - The Famous Romanian Garlicky Meat Sausages

If you are a Romanian or have visited Romania, you know what I am saying. If you are not, never visited Romania, or never met a Romanian, then, you must try these delicious little ones aka mici (mititei) immediately.

What is mici or mititei?
They are small homemade sausages with no casing and they’re so different in many ways, they're super, super nice!

Ideal for a picnic or BBQ especially to grill them and eat them freshly on the spot there and then. They can be pan-fried or baked but.... they will not be the same.

The best mici are the homemade ones obviously as they’re the real stuff. You know what’s in them and that is an absolute must as far as I believe. No need to add anything nasty for those to be the ‘real stuff’. Many people buy them ready-made because they think they’re too fancy to prepare. They are not. Not at all!!
Keep the recipe simple and you’ll see how beautiful they’ll turn out.

Traditionally the recipe calls for quite a bit of fat but I have made them with super lean (just 5% fat) pork mince and 5% fat content beef mince. The result?! Simply gorgeous, super juicy, and absolutely delicious mici. A lot healthier too!
But there is not to say that are no secrets to making those little ones, there are!

The secret to making and preparing mici….
The fat content, as believed by many, isn’t the actual secret to getting nice juicy mici, not at all.

The very secret to good mici or homemade sausages are a couple of things :

The moisture level - need to add liquids to the mixture (see ingredients)
Soda bicarbonate and the beer (the star ingredients)
Fire (needs to be cooked on fairly rapid-fire) and this is the key to success.
More Important Tips
Fresh minced meat/ground meat is important to get the best-tasting mici;
Mici need and must be cooked on fairly rapid fire and this is to keep them juicy and tender.
Serve immediately as they come off the BBQ;
For the best results, taste, and flavors wise, the mixture needs to rest for a couple of hours in the fridge. No need to rest for more than a couple of hours but if no choice, make the mixture the night before.
Serving Suggestions
traditionally, mici must be served on their own with your favorite mustard and a cold, cold super good pint of beer. Once you have all these in place you’re good to go.
they can be served with chips, bread or buns, or a salad of your choice too (I know I will be told off by a Romanian for saying this lol).

Equipment

glass bowl

spatula

tongs

tray

mug

Ingredients

500 g ground beef (17.7 oz or 2.2 cups) I used 5% fat content
500 g ground pork (17.7 oz or 2.2 cups) I used 5% fat content ( you can use more fat content)
180 ml beef stock (6.09 floz) ideally homemade * see recipe notes
50 ml beer ( 1.69 floz)
1 teaspoon soda bicarbonate * ½ US teaspoon as that is larger
1 teaspoon salt * ⅓ US teaspoon
2-3 cloves garlic (small cloves) grated and made into a paste
1 teaspoon thyme dry or fresh
1 pinch nutmeg (optional)
½ teaspoon coriander powder (optional)
¼ teaspoon ground cumin (optional)
¼ teaspoon ground pepper
½ teaspoon cayenne pepper or chilli flakes (optional)
Metric - US Imperial

Instructions

Place the meat into a bowl, you can give it another whizz into the food processor for a double grinding but don’t worry if you don’t fancy doing this. There is another solution - extra mixing/kneading.
In a larger mug, I mix the beef stock with beer, soda bicarbonate, spices, salt pepper and give it a good stir until the salt has dissolved entirely.
Add this liquid mixture to the meat and mix really well until the mixture becomes almost a paste. And this is your double grinding technique
You can now work with a dash of oil or water to form the sausages into their shapes. A little touch of oil takes you a long way so just grease your palms with a tiny dash of oil or, use a bit of water. I always use oil. It helps with preventing them from sticking. Place all on a plate or a little tray, something that can easily be placed in the fridge.
Transfer the open sausages to the fridge to rest for 2 to 4 hours but you can leave them overnight too, it’s absolutely okay.
Place them onto a hot, hot grill or in a hot pan and cook them on each side ( x 2) for no longer than 4 min.
Mici must be served with mustard and a super cold glass of beer. HEA VEN!
Notes
Preparing the homemade stock:
To make the beef or lamb stock at home I always choose oxtail or lamb neck and boil these for a good few hours. They can be made separate or mixed it really does not matter.
Meat Combination Ratio 
 If you don’t eat pork replaced this with lamb but if you do, feel free to mix all three types of meat to a ratio of 2:1:1 meaning 2 parts of beef, 1 part pork and 1 lamb. It’s a sensational one.
Needless to say that I always add chilli flakes to spice things up a little or serve them with nice 'n spicy mustard.
Very Important points/steps! -for the best results
Resting time it’s an important step as they will soak in all the spices and all flavours will blend in nicely.
Mixing the meat is crucial - this needs mixing by hand until resembles a paste
Grilling the mici 
Mici can be grilled, ideally on the charcoal grill but a gas or electric grill would do the job too. They can be even fried in a pan or baked in the oven.
These need to be grilled on quick-fire. High temperature is another secret to PERFECT MICI and turned a couple of times - this is for the best-looking mici (see picture below) but also for delivering some really nice mouthwatering and very juicy mici 'little ones' 😉  
To check whether Mici or the little ones are cooked to perfection while on the grill tap them harder with a fork or the tongs and if they are bouncy, they are ready.
Homemade mici
 
Did you prepare these delicious open sausages also known as mici ?
 
Please do let me know how you liked this recipe, did you give it any twist by using different ingredients, if yes, what were these and how did it turn out for you?  
If you liked it, made it or just got inspired, please leave a comment below or why not share a picture on Instagram with the hashtag #ramonascuisine.  I would really love to see it! 
 
Please do like us on Facebook too! 
 
If you made it and really loved this mici recipe… 
 
Share it with your loved ones, think they might like it too. It will only show you care! 
 
Thank you for stopping by and I do hope you’ll check my blog again to see what’s new, all amazing cooking ideas and easy delightful family recipes. 
 
Have a wonderful day! 
 
Enjoy!